Split contributing docs to multiple files (#36961)
mistercrunch/Airflow: contribution-docs/airflow_dependencies_and_extras.rst

    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Airflow dependencies
====================

Airflow is not a standard python project. Most of the python projects fall into one of two types -
application or library. As described in
`this StackOverflow question <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28509481/should-i-pin-my-python-dependencies-versions>`_,
the decision whether to pin (freeze) dependency versions for a python project depends on the type. For
applications, dependencies should be pinned, but for libraries, they should be open.

> For application, pinning the dependencies makes it more stable to install in the future - because new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For applications, pinning the dependencies makes it more stable to install in the future - because new
```

(even transitive) dependencies might cause installation to fail. For libraries - the dependencies should
be open to allow several different libraries with the same requirements to be installed at the same time.

The problem is that Apache Airflow is a bit of both - application to install and library to be used when
you are developing your own operators and DAGs.

This - seemingly unsolvable - puzzle is solved by having pinned constraints files.

.. contents:: :local:

Pinned constraint files
-----------------------

.. note::

   Only ``pip`` installation is officially supported.

   While it is possible to install Airflow with tools like `poetry <https://python-poetry.org/>`_ or
   `pip-tools <https://pypi.org/project/pip-tools/>`_, they do not share the same workflow as
   ``pip`` - especially when it comes to constraint vs. requirements management.
   Installing via ``Poetry`` or ``pip-tools`` is not currently supported.

   There are known issues with ``bazel`` that might lead to circular dependencies when using it to install

>    Airflow. Please switch to ``pip`` if you encounter such problems. ``Bazel`` community works on fixing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Airflow. Please switch to ``pip`` if you encounter such problems. The ``Bazel`` community is fixing
```

   the problem in `this PR <https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_python/pull/1166>`_ so it might be that
   newer versions of ``bazel`` will handle it.

   If you wish to install airflow using those tools you should use the constraint files and convert
   them to appropriate format and workflow that your tool requires.

By default when you install ``apache-airflow`` package - the dependencies are as open as possible while

> still allowing the apache-airflow package to install. This means that ``apache-airflow`` package might fail to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
still allowing the ``apache-airflow`` package to install. This means that the ``apache-airflow`` package might fail to
```

> install in case a direct or transitive dependency is released that breaks the installation. In such case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
install when a direct or transitive dependency is released that breaks the installation. In that case,
```

when installing ``apache-airflow``, you might need to provide additional constraints (for
example ``pip install apache-airflow==1.10.2 Werkzeug<1.0.0``)

There are several sets of constraints we keep:

> * 'constraints' - those are constraints generated by matching the current airflow version from sources

Reviewer 2: Nit: These* are

Reviewer 2: A few of the follow-up lines have the same thing, if we chose to change it all of them need the same change.

* "constraints-no-providers" - those are constraints generated from only Apache Airflow, without any
  providers. If you want to manage airflow separately and then add providers individually, you can
  use those. Those constraints are named ``constraints-no-providers-<PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION>.txt``.

The first two can be used as constraints file when installing Apache Airflow in a repeatable way.
It can be done from the sources:

from the PyPI package:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install apache-airflow[google,amazon,async]==2.2.5 \
    --constraint "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/constraints-2.2.5/constraints-3.8.txt"

The last one can be used to install Airflow in "minimal" mode - i.e when bare Airflow is installed without
extras.

When you install airflow from sources (in editable mode) you should use "constraints-source-providers"
instead (this accounts for the case when some providers have not yet been released and have conflicting
requirements).

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install -e ".[devel]" \
    --constraint "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/constraints-main/constraints-source-providers-3.8.txt"

> This works also with extras - for example:

Reviewer 2: Nit: also works with extras

> This works also with extras - for example:

Reviewer 2: Nit: also works with extras

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install ".[ssh]" \
    --constraint "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/constraints-main/constraints-source-providers-3.8.txt"

There are different set of fixed constraint files for different python major/minor versions and you should
use the right file for the right python version.

> If you want to update just airflow dependencies, without paying attention to providers, you can do it using

Reviewer 2: Nit: update just the* airflow dependencies,
